Most creators, brands, and small
business owners are chasing viral
videos, but the ones who win in 2026 are
creating recognition. Viral videos are
great for attention, and they can
definitely provide an influx of
followers, engagement, and potential
customers, but it's recognition that
creates predictable growth and income,
repeatable results, and sustained
success. And so, my thesis for today's
episode is that you don't become known
for blowing up, you become known for
locking in. In case you aren't already,
I want to ask you to consider hitting
that subscribe button because I'm super
close to 100K subscribers, and every
single week on this podcast, I put out
helpful tips, strategies, ideas, and
step-by-step guides to growing your
small business or brand on social media.
Something that unfortunately has been
misunderstood over the last few years is
that virality doesn't necessarily equal
success. Virality doesn't equal being
known. Virality, or having a video go
viral, means that you are being seen,
but to be seen is not to be known. In
fact, most viral videos are quite
forgettable. The average person sees
over 1,000 videos per day on social
media, and some estimates suggest that
people are seeing over 5,000 videos a
day on social media. And if I were to
ask you, what were the last five Reels,
the last five TikToks, the last five
YouTube Shorts that you watched, you
probably couldn't name them. And even if
you could, I bet you could only name
one, and you could only vaguely name
what the video was about, not who the
creator was or what that person stands
for. On the other hand, when you as a
creator or a personal brand or a small
business owner are truly known, people
are able to describe you in just one
sentence. She's the gut health girl. Oh,
you're an expecting mom looking for
low-tox living? Check out this lady.
You're trying to grow on Instagram?
Follow Brock. He's the Reels guy. I
can't tell you how many times I've been
walking through a mall or at the airport
or at a speaking event, and someone's
come up to me and said, "Hey, you're the
Reels guy. I see you on my Instagram all
the time." And that's strategic.
Although I've never called myself the
Reels Guy before 3 seconds ago, I've
strategically positioned myself so that
people know me as such. So that when
people think, "Where do I go if I want
to grow on Instagram? Who should I turn
to for Reel ideas? What person is giving
me the breaking news about the latest
Instagram strategies and features?" They
come to my page. And once they come to
my page, they know me as such, and they
continue to recommend me through word of
mouth and through shares to other people
just like them. So the question that I
want you to start asking is not, "How do
I get more views?" Instead, "What do I
want to be known for?" Because at the
end of the day, if you want to actually
be paid for all of your efforts on
social media, if you want to monetize,
if you want customers, if you want
people who are more than just followers,
but they're fans or lifers or
subscribers, you don't need millions of
followers. You need the right kinds of
followers who actually know you. And
before people will know you for
something, you have to decide what you
want to be known for. Now, of course,
this can evolve and change over time, so
I don't want you to put too much
pressure on yourself. But I do want you
to keep in mind that when you confuse,
you lose. So you need a clear and
concise identity that you will be known
for. This is what some people might call
your elevator pitch or your known for
statement. As a template, I want you to
use the following sentence as kind of
like a Mad Lib to build off of. I help
who with specific result using method.
So as I was initially building my
personal brand on Instagram, my
statement was, "I help small business
owners." That was my who. "With organic
Instagram growth." That was the result.
"Using daily Reels." That was the
method. This can essentially be thought
of as your niche. And I've done an
entire episode just a few weeks ago
about niching down, the benefits of it,
and walking you through how to do it. So
if you haven't already, you can click up
here or down in the description below to
go back and watch that episode. Once you
have a clear niche or known for
statement, it should be clear in almost
every post you make. In 80% or more of
the posts that you are sharing to your
feed, it should be evident from the post
without having to be explicitly said
what your known for statement is.
Basically, if someone watches a couple
of your posts, they should instantly get
it without you having to tell them. So,
with all that being said, I have eight
tips to help you create a more
recognizable brand or business on social
media. Back in 2016, when I started my
first real online business, I remember
that my head was filled with so many
what-ifs. What if no one buys this? What
I'm an impostor? What if there's no
market? What if I can't sell? What if
what if what if? What if this is all
just a big waste of time and I'm just
banging my head against the wall? But,
what I wish someone told me back then is
just like you can imagine all the
negative what-ifs, there are just as
many if not more positive what-ifs. What
if this works out? What if this is my
breakthrough? What if this is what sets
me financially free? And thanks to one
of today's sponsors, Shopify,
it's easier than ever to turn those
positive what-ifs into reality. Shopify
is the e-commerce platform behind
millions of businesses around the world,
and it now represents about 10% of the
entire e-commerce market in the US. From
some of the most famous and well-known
brands in the world, like Gymshark, to
solopreneurs, Shopify has you covered.
Shopify helps you get the word out about
your e-commerce business as if you had
an entire marketing team behind you. It
easily helps you create email and social
campaigns so that you can attract
customers wherever they're scrolling.
And if you ever get stuck, Shopify has
24/7 round-the-clock award-winning
customer support. That way, you can
tackle the important tasks from
inventory to payments to analytics all
in one place. No need to bookmark
multiple websites and sign up for
multiple tools, you can do it all in
Shopify. It makes your life easier and
it makes your business operations run
smoother. It's time to turn those
what-ifs into
with Shopify today. Sign up for your $1
per month trial at shopify.com/tribe.
Go to shopify.com/tribe.
That's s h o p i f.com/trive.
Tip number one is to create repeatable
formats. Repeatable formats are
something that I've talked about on
previous episodes of Build Your Tribe,
but it is essentially formats or styles
for your reels that you can use over and
over and over again. One of my most
popular examples that I use at least
once a month is what I call my award
reel. The award reel is a video that I
took back in the summer of 2024 of
myself simply raising up my hands like
this and then I added an emoji of a
trophy. And I saved that video to my
device. Now, all I have to do is change
up what the text at the top of the
screen says. I can have fun with it and
be a little bit sarcastic or playful. I
can relate this reel to something that's
popular in pop culture or something
that's trending. Or I can make it a more
heartfelt message by presenting the
award to someone who actually deserves
it. But as you can see, this reel is not
only a repeatable format, but it's also
very easy for me to create. And by the
way, you are more than welcome to steal
that as your own repeatable format and
you're more than welcome to steal and
recreate any single post that I make
without asking. This is your permission
slip. So, if you want an action item
right now, I want you to pause this
video, set up your phone in a window or
in front of a ring light, and just hold
up your hands like this, and then
digitally impose an emoji of a trophy
into your hands, and you're done. But
this repeatable format has become so
recognizable for me and my account that
whenever I post this reel, people will
say, "Yes, I finally won one of these
awards." Or dang it, every time you post
one of these award reels, I feel called
out. And these comments are proof that
my audience is recognizing this format,
but also able to understand that each
time I post it, it is slightly
different. Repeatable formats feel
familiar, which make them feel more
bingeable. People are more likely to
watch till the end if they have a little
bit of an idea of what to expect, but
not exactly an idea as to where it's
going. While I'm definitely a fan of
experimentation and variability and
trying out new styles for your reels, if
you can have at least one or two
repeatable formats, it creates
memorability for your brand. If every
single post you make is different and
unique from the one that came before it,
well then you're kind of starting over
each time and your audience is starting
from a clean slate. Think about some of
the most famous directors of our time.
There's Wes Anderson whose repeatable
format and style is so unique that it
inspired its own social media trend
copying it. There's Quentin Tarantino
and his love for bright red fake blood
and gory scenes. Speaking of these
recognizable styles, tip number two is
to create your own recognizable style.
And I want to say for all of these tips
that I'm giving, you don't need to
necessarily have all of this figured out
in advance. You can very much figure
this out as you go. But maybe there's a
specific lighting style that you really
enjoy. Maybe you like really warm tones
and lots of yellows and reds and oranges
and browns in your videos or maybe you
like cool tones with lots of blues and
whites and silvers. Maybe you're always
going to use a very professional camera
that creates a really blurry background
and makes your videos look super
cinematic and professional or maybe
you're going to shoot everything on your
phone to give it that made with iPhone
look. Your close captions on your social
media videos can be a part of your
style. Some people will just use the
basic white font with a black outline
for their close captions, but some
people will use a specific font. Maybe
they'll even create their own font.
Maybe they'll put it in a specific color
every time and that will create a
recognizable or repeatable style. Maybe
all of your videos are going to have
lots of quick cuts and B-roll and
jumping from this to that. They're going
to be very visually dynamic or maybe
they're going to be the opposite.
They're going to be very face-timey,
very yappy and they're going to have
minimal editing. Basically, if you were
to remove your username or maybe blur
out your face in the video, would people
be able to recognize that this is one of
your posts just from the style alone?
For the last few years, I've been using
Notion to basically organize my entire
life. It's so much more than just a
to-do list app. It's truly a one-stop
shop for organizing any area of your
life or business. And it's not just
great at organization, it's also great
automations as well. There's so many
complex things that you can do and build
that can happen automatically and
instantly within Notion. And now, for
the first time, they are introducing
Notion AI agents. The new Notion custom
agents will allow you to automatically
perform advanced tasks without you even
having to lift a finger. For example, I
built a Notion custom agent that
automatically pulls the link to any reel
that I have posted, and then it pulls
out the text that I say or the text on
the screen in the first few seconds of
the reel. Basically, it pulls out my
hook. And then it's able to look at how
that post performed and compare it to
the hook, which allows me to see which
hooks are actually working so that I can
reuse them and tweak them for future
reels. Notion is an AI-powered connected
workspace for teams. Notion brings all
of your notes, docs, and projects into
one space that just works. It's
seamless, flexible, powerful, and with
AI built in, you spend less time
switching between different apps and
tools, and more time creating great
work. Now, with Notion's custom agents,
busy work that used to take hours, or
let's be honest, didn't really get done
at all, runs itself. The easiest way to
think about the difference between a
custom agent and normal AI is that
normal AI requires you as the human to
prompt it, but custom agents work for
you 24/7 behind the scenes without you
having to lift a finger. But don't just
take my word for it. Notion is used by
more than half of Fortune 500 companies
and some of the fastest-growing
companies in the world like OpenAI, the
company behind ChatGPT. Try custom
agents now at notion.com/byt.
That's all lowercase. Notion, n o t i o
n, dot com/byt.
To try custom agents today, and when you
use my link, you're supporting our show.
Again, notion.com/byt.
Tip number three is to lean into what
makes you unique. Your quirks, your
weird things that you're into, your
personality are what make you unique.
They are your brand. Oftentimes, we can
spend so much time overthinking what is
our brand? How do I want to present
myself online? How am I going to be
known? And ultimately, if you can just
be yourself, that will help you create a
more recognizable and unique brand.
Because you, as a human being, are
already unique. So instead of trying to
come up with a way to be unique, just be
yourself. Now, I'm on the record of
saying that just be yourself is horrible
advice. So I believe that one of the
tactical or practical ways that you can
just be yourself and let your
personality shine through more in your
content is to edit less. Basically,
reduce the time between idea and
execution. Reduce the time between that
moment where you're like, oh, I want to
share that tip. I want to tell that
story. I want to make this post and
actually pressing post. The less time
that you can spend between those two
moments, the more authentic your post
will be. The more time that you spend
editing, refining, filming, scripting,
AI-ing, filtering, the less real, the
less authentic, and the less you your
post will become. So I want you to
consider things like phrases you always
say. For example, I was recently doing a
live on this YouTube channel reviewing
people's profiles. You can go check it
out. It's still up, by the way. And in
that live, I kept saying, I digress. To
the point that people in the comments
were saying, why do you keep saying I
digress? That's one of those phrases
that I always say. And so by letting
that come out in my content, people are
able to connect with me more. Also, if
you're watching this on YouTube, you may
have noticed it already. I use my hands
a lot. I'm a very physical speaker. And
so by including my hand gestures, it
creates a more recognizable brand. For
example, if I'm speaking and I go like
this with my hands and I talk about how
great Instagram is and how it's going to
be a very, very big year for you, you
can understand who I'm impersonating
because these are recognizable hand
gestures. Another way that you can bring
your personality into your content is
through your tone. Are you someone who's
sarcastic? Are you someone who's very
dry? Are you very high energy and
enthusiastic like I often am? Or are you
someone who's very direct and to the
point? And beyond just your tone,
there's also the pacing in which you
speak. Some people end their sentences
by going up. Some people will pause in
their sentences between every one to two
words. Some people will pause at the end
of each sentence to really drive home
its message.
Again, this is something that I don't
want you to overthink, and it will feel
unnatural at first because it's not
natural for you to record yourself on
video, put yourself on camera, but it
will become more natural over time. I
remember when I was first getting
started on social media, making videos
for Snapchat and YouTube back in the
day, I was mimicking what I had seen
other people do. I was mimicking
newscasters, and I was mimicking my
favorite YouTubists because I had to
figure out where I fit in and what I
liked. But eventually, I brought in more
of my own personality, and now it's to
the point that when people meet me in
real life, they say, "Oh, you're just
like you are online." Or, "Oh, you're
speaking exactly like you do in your
videos." Yeah, because I'm speaking in
my videos the way I do in real life. You
can also create recognizability through
your wardrobe. For example, if I were to
put on a black nose strip and wear a
white tank top, I would look like one
particular business coach who you can
likely imagine. Yes, Alex Hormozi. If I
put on a plain blue T-shirt and spiked
up my hair a little bit, I would be Dan
Martell. Personally, I have two wardrobe
consistencies. In the warmer months, I
wear camp collar T-shirts like this
where I'm kind of in a button-down or
maybe a quarter zip. And in the colder
months, I'm wearing some sort of
sweater. If you want a tactical way that
you could come up with what these quirks
and personality traits are, ask your
friends, family, and loved ones because
oftentimes they're going to know what
these things are better than we're going
to know ourselves. Remember that your
personality isn't a liability, it's your
differentiator. Tip number four is to
come up with content pillars. Now,
there's a right way and a wrong way to
do content pillars. And it essentially
boils down to the old-school way of
doing content pillars and the new-school
way of doing content pillars. The
old-school way of doing content pillars
was to to four or five different topics
that you are interested in that you want
to create posts about. And typically,
these topics would be very diverse. So,
for example, people's content pillars
would be faith, family, fitness,
nutrition, and your dogs. Those things
are all very diverse. And if you have a
video that goes viral of your dogs,
people likely won't care about the other
four. If you have a video that goes
viral relating to your faith, people
probably won't care very much about your
fitness journey or your furry friend
Fido. So, that's the outdated style of
content pillars that I'm not a fan of
and not something that I teach.
Something that I am a fan of, that I do
teach, the new school way of content
pillars, is essentially different
subcategories within your niche, or
different topics that all relate to your
niche, that may be slightly tangential
or adjacent to your niche, but
ultimately, they all kind of fall under
the same umbrella. So, for example, if
I'm the Instagram guy who helps small
business owners grow their page
organically, maybe my content pillars or
the things that I'm going to post about
are Reels growth tips, content strategy,
monetization ideas, different tools you
can use, maybe mindset tips or
motivation. These are all different
things that relate to my niche
ultimately. They're different buckets,
if you will. They're not totally
independent from each other. They are
different pillars holding up the same
roof. As someone who cooks about 95% of
their meals at home, and no, that's not
an exaggeration, usually the only meal
that Tay and I eat out each week is our
sushi Saturday. What we eat, what we
prepare, it matters a lot to us. And
that's why I'm so excited to introduce
you to our newest sponsor, HelloFresh.
HelloFresh allows you to choose between
more than 100 recipes every single week,
including cuisines from all around the
world, and bigger portions that satisfy
everyone. Over 35 of those weekly
recipes are high-protein recipes, which
fires me up, and it allows me to feel
great because I know that I'm eating
wholesome ingredients like sustainably
sourced seafood and 100% antibiotic and
hormone-free chicken. And of course,
most important of all is how it tastes,
and let me tell you, it actually tastes
really good. This helps me be a better
business owner because I'm able to eat
meals that taste good and help me feel
satisfied. I don't have to spend as much
time thinking or prepping each meal, and
I can make sure that I'm hitting my
protein goals in the process. Go to
hellofresh.com/byt10fm
to get 10 free meals plus a freeze
willing knife, which is a $144.99
value on your third box. This offer is
only valid while supplies last. Free
meals applied at discount on your first
box for new subscribers only and varies
by plan. Tip number five to become known
on social media, or more specifically on
Instagram in 2026, is to come up with
some sort of series or repeatable
challenge. Now, if you've been following
me on Instagram, you may be familiar
with my series, which is reviewing one
of my followers' reels every day until I
reach 1 million followers, which by the
way, if you aren't already, make sure to
go follow me on Instagram because then
you can enter in to win every single day
of that series. That for me is kind of
like a repeatable format. It's a reel
that I can do every single day. It's
memorable because my audience can say,
"Hey, this is the guy who is reviewing a
reel a day." Or, "Hey, this is the guy
who's running a mile for every
follower." And it makes the mental
workload for me of coming up with a post
every single day much easier because I
know that I'm going to have at least one
post a day done for me because I don't
have to think about it. It's just my
reel review of the day. Tip number seven
to become known is to be specific. The
more specific you can be, the easier and
faster it will be to become the go-to
person for that thing. As a very obvious
and extreme example, if you wanted to be
the world's leading fitness expert,
that's going to be really, really tough.
In fact, you could work towards that
your entire life and dedicate every
ounce of your being to that and not end
up being the world's leading fitness
expert. However, if your goal is instead
to be the go-to person to help moms in
Northern Ireland who are over the age of
30 run their first marathon, that's more
doable. Sure, the ceiling of potential
followers that you could gain is lower
because there's just less people on the
planet who are interested in that
specific of a topic, but you're going to
be able to reach your ceiling much
faster. People are going to be able to
know you for that thing. People are
going to be able to recommend you to
their friends, family, and colleagues
who are interested in that topic.
Whenever you're going to sell or promote
some sort of offer, people are going to
eat it up because they know it's perfect
for them. You don't have to convince
them that they are the right fit. They
know that they are the right fit. And
the really cool thing about becoming
known for something specific is that you
can broaden out from there. Alex
Hormozi, who I already mentioned in
today's episode, is now thought of as
one of the best business coaches in the
world. But, he got his start by only
talking about and only helping gyms for
over 6 years. Gary Vee, who has long
been known as one of the best marketing
experts in the world, got his start
specifically within the wine industry
and turning around his parents' wine
business. No one is known for
everything, and no one is known by
everyone. So, if you want to be known,
period, then you have to pick something,
something specific, something niche,
something that is hyper-localized or
hyper-specific, so that people can come
to know you and recognize you for that
specific thing, and then over time you
can broaden out your reach. Basically,
you don't grow and have success on
Instagram by trying to reach everyone.
You do so by being known by someone. Tip
number eight is that frequency builds
familiarity. Yes, it is true that the
more you post, the more you grow. Yes,
it is true that the more you post, the
more you practice and the better your
posts get. But, also the more you post,
the more opportunities there are for
someone to know you for something. I
truly believe that one of the reasons
that I'm known as the Instagram guy or
the Reels Guy, and one of the
opportunities that I had the privilege
and the honor of interviewing the head
of Instagram, was because I have posted
at an accelerating frequency every
single day for 6 years now. It takes a
lot of time and a lot of posts for
people to know you for something. You
can't post about a topic one time and
become known for it. You have to post
about that exact same topic over and
over and over again for months, if not
years, before people will even kind of
start to remember it. I say all the
time, the more you post, the more you
grow. And yet, every single time I post
about the more you post, the more you
grow, people are like, wait, but how
much should I post? Wait, is it okay to
post two times a day? And I'm like,
well, yeah, for example, I post like
five times a day. Every single time I
post about forget hashtags, hashtags are
outdated, hashtags don't help you grow,
hashtags haven't been a thing since
2021, something that I post about almost
on a weekly basis, there are numerous
comments from people who are like, I had
no idea, I have never heard this before.
But eventually, over time, it becomes
known to more and more people. There are
many studies that have been done in the
advertising world that show that people
have to see an ad upwards of 20 times
before it really sticks in their brain
and they can really comprehend or
remember what the ad is about. And so,
if that's for advertisement, you can
assume that something quite similar is
true with your content. People have to
see you not just post 20 times, but they
have to see 20 of your posts about the
exact same topic in order to know you
and remember and recognize you for that
topic. And remember that experiment that
we did earlier where I asked you if you
could remember the last five short-form
videos that you watched and you probably
couldn't. It's important to keep that in
mind when you yourself are creating and
posting content on social media. You're
not annoying people, you're imprinting
on them. You are leaving your mark. You
are adding a tally to their mind to help
them potentially remember you and
recognize your brand in the future. Fame
is random, recognition is built. It's
intentional and it comes from the
strategies that are shared in today's
episode. If you learned something new or
if you enjoyed this episode at all, I
want to encourage you to hit that
subscribe button and if you're already
subscribed, hit that thumbs up button
because it really helps out the video
and the channel a lot. Thank you so much
for watching today and as always happy
networking.